Hey and welcome, this is dr. Barry today
I want to talk to you about the top seven key toe tips you need that I recommend the ketogenic diet is the
Newest fad no wait. It's actually the oldest diet known to mankind
We've been eating this way for millions of years, and it's about time we get back to it
if you like the sound of this please click the subscribe button and click that little bell right beside it so that every time I
Get a bright idea
You'll be one of the very first to know now let's talk about the top seven key toe tips you need
Okay number one is start now start right now start today. You don't have to prep for this
You don't have to study up for this necessarily
There's going to be a learning curve with the ketogenic diet, but that's okay. You can still start today
It's as simple as
Trying to eat as few carbs as possible and trying to eat as much fat as you can in a day, okay
Don't worry about counting macros
Don't worry about buying a book just operate on those two principles starting today start right now as soon as this video is over
Share it on your social media, and then start your ketogenic diet
It's really that simple you can learn as you go along the ketogenic diet is very
Forgiving and so that's what makes it possible to do this number two is you're going to need to eat more salt
Okay
Salt has been demonized in Western medicine for what 50 60 70 years now
There's absolutely no recomment. No research and no science that backs this up
You can eat as much salt as you'd like
There's research that shows that if you just let people eat as much salt a day as they want to
They average out somewhere between 3 & 6 grams a day
And that's that's probably the healthy amount of salt you need
When you start a ketogenic diet? You're is one of the most?
anti-inflammatory diets
That there is on the planet ok so if you have any inflammation in your gut if you have inflammation in your joints
if you have inflammation in your skin that inflammation is going to get better and
Inflammation causes swelling right and so when swelling gets better the water that caused the swelling
That's what goes to the tissues and makes them swell up that water has to go somewhere
And you're just going to pee that out called
Diuresis and so most people notice on the ketogenic diet their face starts getting slimmer
And they lose 5 10 15 20 pounds within the first week or two that's not fat loss. I'm sorry
That's water loss, but that's still a good thing because that means that you are improving the inflammation all over your body
But as that water
Leaves your body it takes salt with it
And so you can this is part of the reason people have the keto flu they have cramps
They have other things when they're doing the ketogenic diet is because they're still afraid of salt
Stop being afraid of salt it is your friend. It is not your enemy
Okay, number. Three is get rid of the temptations in your house
And I know if you're if you a part of a large family that may be
Troublesome to throw away all the chips and all the crackers and all the bread
also, if funds are limited if you're on a limited budget that may hurt a lot and so refer back to
Number one start now the ketogenic diet is very forgiving and therefore if you can't throw everything away
It's not the end of the world, but it sure makes it easier when you're having a bad day
emotionally, and you want to reach for that comfort food if it's not there if you have to get in the in your vehicle and
Drive all the way to the grocery to get it you're not gonna do that but if it's right there in the cupboard
You might just grab it so if it's financially and socially feasible
Clean out your fridge and clean out your cabinets that makes it so much easier to stick to this diet
Number four eat until you're full
The ketogenic diet has nothing to do with decreasing your calorie intake it has nothing to do with
decreasing your portion size
That's the old way of thinking okay? That's the old way of thinking that basically for the last 50 years has caused
the obesity epidemic
Yeah, that's right. Yeah, so stop cutting down on your portion size stop not going back for seconds
Stop worrying about your calorie counts all those things are irrelevant and have nothing to do with this when you eat enough fat
You're going to trigger the satiation hormones in your brain and your gut tell you how you dude?
You're full stop eating and when that happens you're done
You can't eat more fat unlike if you have a huge family size bag of Doritos
You can eat the whole bag, and you don't ever get that that hormonal trigger saying stop that you're full
So when you eat enough fat on this diet you're gonna be full, so don't worry about portions
Don't worry about any of that just drastically cut the carbs and increase the fat consumption and this diets going to work for you
next is
Your initial weight loss is fluid loss. It's not fat loss so alive had I've had patients be like oh
I lost 15 pounds on the ketogenic diet in two weeks, and so I just quit cuz I've reached my goal
No, no no first of all the ketogenic diet is not a diet
It really should be called the ketogenic lifestyle because this is the way human beings are supposed to eat
This is the way I want you to eat for the rest of your life
Okay, this is not a short-term diet if you lose 5 10 15 20 pounds in the first week or two you haven't lost any
fat maybe a pound
But that that was water loss you haven't reached any goal whatsoever in the first week or two
With a ketogenic diet slash lifestyle, so don't let that trick you remember we talked about how the ketogenic diet is the most?
anti-inflammatory diet on the planet
And so you're going to have less swelling in your face you're gonna have less swelling in your gut less swelling in your joints
Swelling is caused by cells taking up extra water
When you get rid of that water you're going to pee off the water right and so that weight loss is water
Water loss not fat loss. So don't be tricked by the initial weight loss
next is
Learn to eat new things and I seem to have more trouble with my male patients on this than my female patients
Yeah, I understand you're used to eating chicken nuggets and ketchup, and that's your go-to and that's what you eat every meal
Ok that's dumb stop that okay
Part of being a mature grown-up part of being a man part of being a woman is is loving to try new things
Ok and so if you're if you don't love to try new things
You need to get over that because that's first of all all sign of immaturity
Second of all it's not going to help you on the ketogenic diets
You need to take a trip to the grocery and just walk around the produce section
and you need to look around and you need to find one or two or three new ketogenic vegetables that you've never tried and
Try them remember you can salt them as much as you want you can use as many spices and herbs and pepper as you want
Because those things are ketogenic they don't they don't mess up your your insulin level. They don't mess up your fast
They don't mess up your diet
You've got to try any veggies, okay?
You've got to go to the meat section
And you've got to look around and try new cuts of meat new kinds of meat you've never tried before
If you're not willing to do that then you're probably going to fail at this lifestyle because you have to be a mature adult
to do the ketogenic diet
There is new research just out that shows that the human palate is retraining
It's absolutely proven that you can learn to like new foods, so if you're a trick chicken strip and ketchup guy
Dude, stop that okay. You sound like a 12 year old get out there and try some new foods
I promise you'll like some of them, okay
I hope I didn't make you mad, but if I did you probably needed to hear it anyway now
Number seven is if you cheat if you mess up if you do grab that family size bag of Doritos
What do I do most people's impulse is to just quit give up or for the rest of the day?
Well, I already did that I'll just eat crap the rest of the day
Another subset of people say. Oh my god. I just ate the whole bag of Doritos
I'm gonna go run ten miles and then go to the gym and work out then
I'm not gonna eat another thing for the rest of the day all those are
Understandable reactions, but they're inappropriate you don't have to do any of that just act like it never happened okay, just pick right up
Right right back up where you left off
The ketogenic diet is one of the most forgiving diets that you've ever tried if you just pick right back up
Where you left off? It'll be almost like nothing happens now. This is not giving you a license to cheat
This is just saying if and when you do cheat. Don't worry about it. Don't sweat. It. Don't feel guilty don't feel bad
Don't feel like a failure
Just remember the ketogenic diet is mirroring the diet that our ancestors used to eat hundreds of thousands of years
And so once every year or two they would find a honey tree right with where bees had, honey
What do you think they did they ate all of it right and they would lay around in a sugar coma?
For days around the base of the tree until they finally burned all the carbs off then they'd get up and go about their business
Or once a year, and if you were
Outside the tropics of capricorn the cancer
Fruit gets ripe in the fall right and so that's why it's called the fallen fruit falls
And you eat all that fruit and gain five pounds right before the winter
That happens once a year though right and so it's okay to cheat every now
And then that's not a big deal because our ancestors did it every chance they got
If you had given them sugar and carbs every day. They would have eaten them every day, and they would be fat
Just like we are
But they didn't have access to that they found the honey tree once every year or two they found the fall fruit once a year
And for the rest of the year they ate the ketogenic diet, okay?
And that's why they were all healthy Lane and looked great in a bikini or a speedo
I don't think they had those back then but you know what I mean oh
I've got a couple of bonus
Ketogenic tips first is working out
Does not make it okay to cheat a lot of people because a lot of times the calorie counts
Remember refer back to calories being meaningless the calorie count on the treadmill or on the Stairmaster is black
You could work out really hard. Oh, I burned so many hundreds of calories first of all 99% of the time those counters are wrong
Yeah, don't no no that does not give you the right to have a cookie you haven't earned
The the pleasure of eating half of the cherry pie that's not how it works
Working out is great
if you want to gain muscle
But working out there as shown in multiple studies is a terrible way to lose weight
The calorie counting game does not work the calorie deficit game does not work
We've been trying that for 50 years, and we all just got fat doing it
Workout if you want to gain muscle workout if you want to keep your brain healthy and actually put off
Dementia working out is great for your body and hundreds of ways, but it does not help you lose weight
And it does not give you the right to eat a cheat meal. That's not how it works my last bonus tip is consider
Blending intermittent fasting with your ketogenic diet the two together
I've had I've seen better weight loss and health improvement results in the patients in my clinic than any other diet
I've ever seen a recommended in my entire professional career
When you blend the ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting you get you you you compound the benefits you
Multiply the benefits. They're not just additive
They're synergistic
They work, so hand-in-hand
And it also is kind of effortless to fast if you're on the ketogenic diet because the fat keeps you full right
So if you've enjoyed this video, please share it on your social media share it on Facebook share it on Instagram
I love making these videos
And I'm sure you have friends or relatives who really need to hear this message
Now if you'd like to support me in a more personal way. I have a patreon page
There's a link down below
And you can give me a buck if you want to just to help me have more time to make these videos
This is doctor Barry. I'll see you next